[DOC] Add clarification for metrics summary and traceQL metrics (#4316)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/api_docs/metrics-summary.md

# Metrics summary API

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

> The metrics summary API is deprecated as of Tempo 2.7. Features powered by the metrics summary API, like Aggregate by table, are also deprecated in Grafana Cloud and Grafana 11.3 and later.

Author: ```suggestion
The metrics summary API is deprecated as of Tempo 2.7. Features powered by the metrics summary API, like the [Aggregate by table](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/datasources/tempo/query-editor/traceql-search/#optional-use-aggregate-by), are also deprecated in Grafana Cloud and Grafana 11.3 and later.
```

{{< youtube id="g97CjKOZqT4" >}}

## Deprecation in favor of TraceQL metrics

> Since TraceQL metrics is now available, the metrics summary API is redundant given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metrics summary API is now redundant given the release of TraceQL metrics.
```

> This API is being deprecated to reduce our maintenance burden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is therefore being deprecated to reduce our maintenance burden.
```

TraceQL metrics queries are significantly more powerful than what metrics summary API provides.
TraceQL metrics can look at arbitrary time windows (not just the last hour), return time series information (rather than just a single instant value over the past hour), and can look at all spans (not just `kind=server`).

> To provide an example, if you were to aggregate by resource.cloud.region with the metrics summary API, you could get the same results with a couple TraceQL queries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide an example, if you were to aggregate by the attribute `resource.cloud.region` with the metrics summary API, you could get the same results with a couple TraceQL queries:
```

Rate of requests by `resource.cloud.region`
```
{ } | rate() by (resource.cloud.region)
```

Error rate by `resource.cloud.region`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Removing whitespace for consistency.

```

> { status=error} | rate() by (resource.cloud.region)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ status=error } | rate() by (resource.cloud.region)
```

Reviewer: Add space for consistency.

```

> The p99, p90, and p50 latency by `resource.cloud.region`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 50th, 90th, and 99th percentile latencies (i.e. p99, p90, and p50) by `resource.cloud.region`
```

```
{ } | quantile_over_time(duration, .99, .9, .5) by (resource.cloud.region)
```

> Instead of these queries, you can use [Explore Traces](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/explore/simplified-exploration/traces/), a queryless experience for navigating your trace data stored in Tempo and powered by TraceQL metrics queries under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want something faster than typing these queries out in Explore's code mode, use [Explore Traces](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/explore/simplified-exploration/traces/), a queryless experience for navigating your trace data stored in Tempo and powered by TraceQL metrics queries under the hood.
```
